README.md, before:

<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 FC Stegerman <flx@obfusk.net> -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later -->

[![CI](https://github.com/obfusk/sigblock-code-poc/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/obfusk/sigblock-code-poc/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![GPLv3+](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3+-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

# android apk signing block payload poc

PoC for an Android app that reads the APK Signing block of its own APK and
extracts a payload to alter its behaviour.

Whether the payload is present or not does not affect the validity of the
signature.

Thus we get two APKs -- with an identical valid v1+v2+v3 signature -- but one
says "nothing to see here..." when you run it, whereas the other says e.g. "This
is the payload".

NB: uses the work-in-progress [`apksigtool`](https://github.com/obfusk/apksigtool)
to add the payload to the APK.

## Example

### Generate a dummy keystore

```bash
$ keytool -genkey -keystore dummy-ks -alias dummy -keyalg RSA \
    -keysize 4096 -sigalg SHA512withRSA -validity 10000 \
    -storepass dummy-password -dname CN=dummy
```

### Build a release APK

```bash
$ ./gradlew assembleRelease
```

### Sign it with the dummy key

```bash
$ cp app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release-unsigned.apk poc.apk
$ apksigner sign -v --ks dummy-ks --ks-key-alias dummy poc.apk
```

### Add the payload

#### In a custom block

```bash
$ echo 'This is the payload' > payload
$ ./add_poc.py poc.apk payload
```

#### Hidden in the verity padding block

```bash
$ echo 'This is the payload' > payload
$ ./add_poc.py --verity poc.apk payload
```

### Install on phone

```bash
$ adb install poc.apk
```

## License

[![GPLv3+](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/gplv3-127x51.png)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

<!-- vim: set tw=70 sw=2 sts=2 et fdm=marker : -->

Commit message:

README: add export ANDROID_HOME info

README.md, after:

<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 FC Stegerman <flx@obfusk.net> -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later -->

[![CI](https://github.com/obfusk/sigblock-code-poc/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/obfusk/sigblock-code-poc/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![GPLv3+](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3+-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

# android apk signing block payload poc

PoC for an Android app that reads the APK Signing block of its own APK and
extracts a payload to alter its behaviour.

Whether the payload is present or not does not affect the validity of the
signature.

Thus we get two APKs -- with an identical valid v1+v2+v3 signature -- but one
says "nothing to see here..." when you run it, whereas the other says e.g. "This
is the payload".

NB: uses the work-in-progress [`apksigtool`](https://github.com/obfusk/apksigtool)
to add the payload to the APK.

## Example

### Generate a dummy keystore

```bash
$ keytool -genkey -keystore dummy-ks -alias dummy -keyalg RSA \
    -keysize 4096 -sigalg SHA512withRSA -validity 10000 \
    -storepass dummy-password -dname CN=dummy
```

### Build a release APK

```bash
$ ./gradlew assembleRelease
```

NB: if you get an "SDK location not found" error, you'll need to set
`ANDROID_HOME` first (adjust accordingly if the SDK is in another location than
the Android Studio default of `~/Android/Sdk`):

```bash
$ export ANDROID_HOME=~/Android/Sdk
$ ./gradlew assembleRelease
```

### Sign it with the dummy key

```bash
$ cp app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release-unsigned.apk poc.apk
$ apksigner sign -v --ks dummy-ks --ks-key-alias dummy poc.apk
```

### Add the payload

#### In a custom block

```bash
$ echo 'This is the payload' > payload
$ ./add_poc.py poc.apk payload
```

#### Hidden in the verity padding block

```bash
$ echo 'This is the payload' > payload
$ ./add_poc.py --verity poc.apk payload
```

### Install on phone

```bash
$ adb install poc.apk
```

## License

[![GPLv3+](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/gplv3-127x51.png)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

<!-- vim: set tw=70 sw=2 sts=2 et fdm=marker : -->
